These two Python scripts are utilized to **(1)** initialize a customized SQLite database and **(2)** populate it with data from an Excel .xlsx spreadsheet. When executed, these scripts generate a .db file containing the specified table(s) and data.

## `initialize_qacs_db.py`
The primary function of `initialize_qacs_db` is to initialize an empty SQLite database with customized table entries. 

### Dependencies
* `sqlite3`

### Usage
To utilize this script, simply run the following command in your terminal:
```
python3 initialize_qacs_db.py
```
The script will generate a SQLite database named `qacs.db` in the directory from which the script is run.

### Returns
The current version of `initialize_qacs_db.py` will initialize a .db file containing an empty table called `qacs_rt_ccs`. The table contains the following entries:
1. **compound_name**: Name of the compound (*i.e.* +1O_C8_ATMA)
2. **exact_mz**: Exact m/z value of the compound
3. **rt**: Observed retention time of the compound
4. **average_ccs**: Observed average CCS value of the compound
5. **ccs_calibrant**: CCS calibrant used to obtain CCS value
6. **gradient**: Type of LC gradient used
7. **column_type**: Type of LC column used
8. **notes**: Notes regarding data collection, etc.

### Notes
The current version of `initialize_qacs_db.py` is intended to be executed on its own and is therefore fully customizable, depending on the type and structure of the desired input data. For example, an even more comprehensive reference database can be generated by adding  additional columns for `adduct_type` and `chemical_formula` into the `qacs_rt_ccs` table by directly manipulating the following lines of code:
```python
# Add chemical_formula and adduct_type to qacs_rt
sql_create_qacs_ccs_table = """ CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS qacs_rt_ccs (compound_name text, exact_mz text NOT NULL, chemical_formula text, adduct_type text, rt real, average_cs real, gradient text, column_type text, notes text); """
```

## `insert_qacs_xlsx.py`
The `insert_qacs_xlsx.py` script is designed to populate the SQLite database generated by `initialize_qacs_db.py` by reading data from an Excel .xlsx file and inserting it into the specified table.

### Dependencies
* `sqlite3`
* `pandas`

### Usage
Prior to running this script, ensure that **(1)** the correct database is being connected to, and **(2)** the path to the Excel spreadsheet is properly specified within `insert_qacs_xlsx.py`:
```python
# Connect to the initialized "qacs.db" database where data will be entered
cxn = sqlite3.connect("qacs.db")

# Insert path to the Excel spreadsheet containing input data
# Ensure that the sheet name is identical to the SQLite table being populated
wb = pd.read_excel("input_file.xlsx", sheet_name = "qacs_rt_ccs")
```
To utilize this script, simply run the following command in your terminal:
```
python3 insert_qacs_xlsx.py
```
The script will populate the specified .db file with data from the input Excel spreadsheet. 

### Returns
A populated .db file containing the input data stored within the Excel spreadsheet.
